Episode 3, George.
All good things come to an end and so it was with our schooldays.
I remember one lazy afternoon when Miki, Elizabeth
and I were sitting on the lawn in front of the school.
Elizabeth was looking pretty in her summer dress and Miki was smoking a cigar, as usual.
Graduation was only a week away.
“I don’t know what’s wrong with Cambridge,” Elizabeth was saying.
“It would be so nice if you guys were there with me.
But no, you’re going off to Oxford”, she said, looking at me, “and Miki to Harvard.”
“ Elizabeth,” I said, “my father went to Oxford and my grandfather and my great-grandfather.
It’s basically my destiny.
Remember, I’m being groomed for a role in the family business.
If I don’t go to Oxford, they’ll let my little sister take my place.”
“Girl power!” Miki chipped in.
“I’ve always believed that women make great and strong
leaders – like your Thatcher and your Queen Elizabeth.”
He loved making comments about Britain; it was something I always found very funny about him.
And then he continued, “Elizabeth, unfortunately, I don’t
have a little sister, so it’ll be up to me to run things.
George is being groomed for his family business.
I’m being groomed to run my entire country.”
Elizabeth and I both perked up.
Miki didn’t often talk about his future as the president of
Ankhazastan and we were always interested to hear about it.
“What sort of leader are you going to be?” I asked him.
“A great leader!” he said.
“I’m going to Harvard – not because I don’t like
England – but to see politics from their point of view.
Harvard has excellent courses in politics and economics.
I need to be knowledgeable in these things.”
“And what about introducing democracy?” asked Elizabeth.
Miki took a long drag of his cigar, held the smoke in his mouth for some moments and exhaled.
“If all goes as planned, Ankhazastan will become a democracy,
I’ll make sure of it”, he said, looking up at the sky.
“I’m so happy to hear you say that,” said Elizabeth,
who always seemed more interested in politics than me.
Miki stood up and said, “My father is still young, just forty years old.
Whatever changes I make are far in the future.
Harvard is my immediate goal.
That’s my main focus for now”
We stood up and walked with him towards the school buildings.
The headmaster was up ahead, looking the opposite way, but turning in our direction.
So I snatched Miki’s cigar out of his hand, threw it on the ground and crushed it with my heel.
“Why did you do that?” he said darkly.
He never liked it when things were taken away from him.
“If you get caught smoking again, you’ll be expelled, and you know that,”
I told him, scolding him lightly, but also admiring his carefree attitude.
“Rules are for other people,” said Miki.
“Not for me.”